# NUVA publication
## Overview
The Unified Nomenclature of Vaccines (NUVA) is a common ontology of administered vaccines proposed by the [International Vaccine Codes Initiative](https://ivci.org) as a common good.

It is provided under the [Creative Commons CC-BY-ND license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0/deed.en).

This repository contains the source files that are used to generate the NUVA contents in various formats.

It is also the place to submit any request regarding the NUVA, using the Issues section.

The historicized NUVA contents are available in the Releases section of this repository. The last version is also available in the Release/NUVA folder.

## Source files
The content of this repository is organized as follows:
```
.
├── Units/
│   ├── Vaccines/
│   │   ├── VAC0001.yml
│   │   :
│   │   └── VAC1352.yml	
│   ├── Valences/	
│   │   ├── VAL001.yml
│   │   :
│   │   └── VAL420.yml
│   ├── Targets/	
│   │   ├── DIS001.yml
│   │   :
│   │   └── DIS080.yml
│   └── CodeSystems/	
│       ├── AIC.yml
│       :
│       └── UPC.yml	
├── Translations/
│       ├── nuva_en.yml
│       :
│       └── nuva_pl.yml	
├── Release/
│       ├── Version.yml
│       ├── NUVA/
│       │   ├── nuva_core.ttl
│       │   ├── nuva_full.ttl
│       │   └── nuva_core.csv
│       ├── Languages/
│       │   ├── nuva_lang_de.ttl
│       │   :
│       │   └── nuva_lang_pl.ttl
│       └── Alignments/
│           ├── nuva_refcode_ATC.csv
│           :
│           └── nuva_refcode_PZN.csv
├── Documentation/
│       ├── Concepts.md
│       ├── Editorial.md
│       ├── Processes.md
│       └── Structure.md
└── README.md
```
### Unit files
Unit files are the source files from which all RDF graphs are elaborated. They are expressed in YAML format and edited through this [ editing platform]().

For a vaccine, the Unit file contains the label and comment in English, the isAbstract attribute, the list of associated valences and the aligned codes in various code systems.

For a valence, the Unit file contains the label and notation in English, and the identification of the parent valence.

For a target (for the time being, a disease), the Unit file contains a label.

For a code system, the Unit file contains a description.

All Unit files also include creation and last modification dates for the concept.

### Translations
Translations of NUVA concepts are performed by the community using the public [Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/) platform. It is the frontend for proposing translations, that once validated are published here and trigger the update of the translation graphs in `Languages`.

`nuva_en.yml` is the master record for Weblate. It contains all the localized texts: labels, descriptions, shorthand notations for valences. It is generated by the [editing platform]() used for the Unit files.

`nuva_xx.yml` is the file generated by Weblate when an updated set of translations is validated for language xx.

### Release
The Release folder contains a Version file that gives the Version, Edition and Iteration of the last generated RDF resources, and the date of that generation.

Its subfolders are used as follows.

#### NUVA
`nuva_core.ttl` is a RDF graph in Turtle format with only the core concepts of NUVA: vaccines, valences, and their textual attributes only in English.

`nuva_full.ttl` complements it with all the published alignments.

`nuva_core.csv` is a simple CSV list of all codes for administered vaccines with their English label and descriptive comment. It can be used as a basis for creating an alignment file.

#### Languages
Additional languages are published also as graphs, that can be merged with `nuva_core.ttl` to obtain a version with translations for one or several given languages.

#### Alignments
These are the reference alignements of other code systems for administered vaccines with NUVA vaccine codes.

To avoid unwanted conversion of texts to numbers, all codes are prefixed with their code system.

##### code2nuva.csv
This CSV file has three columns
- the code in the aligned code system, 
- the equivalent concept code in NUVA,
- the English label for this vaccine code.
##### nuva2code.csv
This CSV file has 8 columns:
- the NUVA concept code
- the English label for this code
- a IsAbstract boolean indicating if the code belongs to a real vaccine
- a code in the code system that may represent this NUVA code (possibly empty if no such code exists)
- a Best boolean indicating if this code is the best possible option for representing this NUVA concept.
And if this is a Best code:
- a Blur value indicating how many NUVA concepts are best represented by this same code.
- a Equiv value indicating how many codes in the code system are exactly equivalent to the NUVA concept (they differ by a criterion outside of the NUVA scope)
##### metrics_code.txt
This text file contains the metrics of completeness, precision of redundancy for the given code system against all the NUVA concepts.	
### Documentation
Here the documentation about the NUVA concepts, their representation in RDF, the processes used to update the NUVA, and the enforced editorial rules.

## How to ##
### Obtain the last version of the NUVA ###
It can be downloaded in various formats from the Release folder.
### Be notified on a new release ###
Use the Watch action on the repository settings, and select Custom, Releases.
### Ask for support ###
Use the Issues tab here.
### Propose vaccine or valence concepts ###
For an occasional suggestion, you may use the Issues tab. Regular contributors may be invited to join the core team.

### Contribute to translations ###
Everyone has a Read access in the [Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/ivci/nuva_labels/) used for the translations.

Please contact us if you want to be granted a Write access. The use of Weblate is detailed in the Processes documentation. 
### Contribute to alignments ###
You may start by creating a CSV alignment file, based upon the ones published in the releases, and submit it as a new Issue in this repository. 

We will then check your proposed alignments, upload them to the Unit files and  grant you an access to the [editing platform]() for future maintenance.


